This document describes how, when and where constraints on Wikibase
Entities are enforced and defined.


== Local Constraints ==

Local constraints (aka input constraints) are constraints imposed
locally on Entities or parts of Entities. They are checked only upon
''direct modification'' of ''that part'' of the Entity, and are not
enforced for (parts of) Entities already in the database.

Furthermore, (local) input constraints can impose constraints on
modifications, that is, constraints that take into account an Entitie's
''previous state'' (such as ''main snak continuity'' below).

'''NOTE''': it shall be possible to modify any part of an Entity even
if some other part of that Entity is violating a local constraint.
This allows local constraints to be added or tightened without
rendering existing entities invalid; more importantly, it allows
partially corrupt entities to be handled by the system, e.g. for manual
repair.

'''NOTE''': checking a local constraint may require knowledge of
the current state of the database; however, violating such a
constraint does not violate the integrity of the database. For
instance, data values that reference other entities should be checked
to be referencing an ''existing'' entity, but it is not a violation of
data integrity if an entity contains a "broken" reference.

Local constraints are enforced by the respective ChangeOps. Snak
validation is largely based on the validators provided by the DataType
objects which are constructed in WikibaseDataTypeBuilders, while the
validators for terms come fro the TermValidatorFactory.

Examples of local constraints include:
* Data value validity (referencing only existing Items, range checks, no empty strings, valid unicode, etc).
* Snak integrity (referencing an existing Property, using the correct data value type).
* Main snak continuity: A Claim's main Snak can not be changed to a Snak about a different Property than the current main Snak.
* Property labels must not be valid (well formed) Property IDs. NOTE: for technical reasons, this may be implements as a global constraint, even though this is not necessary.


== Global Constraints ==

Global constraints are constraints that require knowledge of the entire
Entity and possible the state of the database in order to be enforced.
There are "hard" and "non-hard" global constraints; for ''hard'' global
constraints, see the next section below.

Non-hard global constraints are enforced on most save operations
(notable exceptions are things like import or undelete). They
are triggered by the EditEntity controller and currently
encapsulated in the PreSaveChecks class, though that may change
without notice.

'''NOTE''': Checks on non-hard global constraints can be optimized to
consider only the parts of an Entity changed by the edit at hand; that
is, they may be based on the diff between the Entity's old and new
state. This means that it may or may not be possile to edit an entity
that violates a (non-hard) global constraint in a part that was not
presently edited.

TBD: canonical location defining such constraints, mechanism for
registering new constraints.

Currently, the following (non-hard) global constraints are defined:
* If an Item has a label and a description for a given language, no other Item may have that same combination for the same language.
* Term (fingerprint) validity (labels are not too long, language codes are known, etc). NOTE: this is really a local constraint and will be moved!


== Hard Constraints ==

Hard constraints are global constraints that are required by the data
model. Violating a hard constraint means breaking the integrity of the
database and may render the entire system unusable.

Hard constraints are enforced on ''every'' save of an Entity. They are
checked during the database transaction that modifies the page table.
The method EntityContent::getOnSaveValidators() supplies the validators
to use for validating hard constraints.

'''NOTE:''' hard constraints must always consider the full Entity, and
compare it to the actual current state of the dta model, as stored in
the database.

TBD: canonical location defining such constraints, mechanism for
registering new constraints.

Currently, the following hard global constraints are enforced for the
standard entity types:

* The lables of Properties (but not Items) must be unique per language.
* Site links are unique, that is, only one Item can contain a given sitelink.
* Any Item can only contain one SiteLink for any given site.

