This document describes the deployment process necessary for migrating from "naive" sitelink
based dispatching and purging to the full usage tracking needed to support arbitrary access to
entities from wikitext.

Overview of the tables involved (using "repowiki" and "clientwiki" as the database name and site
ID for the repo and respective client wiki):

* repowiki.wb_items_per_site:  The sitelinks stored on the repo, mapping entity IDs to page titles on client wikis.
* repowiki.wb_changes_subscription:  (new) Subscriptions to change notifications, mapping entity IDs to client site ids. (Note that site ids are often, but not necessarily, the same as the client wiki's database name).
* clientwiki.wbc_entity_usage: (new) Tracks the usage of entities on the client, including the information which page uses which aspect of which entity.

For deferred deployment of schema changes, usage of the new tables can be disabled using the appropriate feature switches:
* To not use repowiki.wb_changes_subscription, set useLegacyChangesSubscription = true (on both client and repo wikis).
* To not use clientwiki.wbc_entity_usage, set useLegacyUsageIndex = true on the client wiki.

Maintenance scripts are used to populate the new database tables used for usage tracking and subscription management:
* repo/maintenance/populateChangesSubscription.php populates wb_changes_subscription table based on repowiki.wb_items_per_site.
* client/maintenance/populateEntityUsage.php populates the wbc_entity_usage table based on repowiki.wb_items_per_site (data transfer from repo to client).
* client/maintenance/updateSubscriptions.php updates repowiki.wb_changes_subscription based on the client wiki's wbc_entity_usage table (data transfer from client to repo). This should be run ''after'' populateChangesSubscription.php and populateEntityUsage.php.


Deployment of the new usage tracking scheme can be done in three steps:


== Create subscription table on the repo ==

To set up the subscription tracking table on the repo:
* Deploy the schema change and set useLegacyChangesSubscription = false.
** If useLegacyChangesSubscription is false, update.php will create the table automatically.
** If useLegacyChangesSubscription is true, apply repo/sql/changes_subscription.sql manually.
* Run repo/maintenance/populateChangesSubscription.php to initialize the wb_changes_subscription table based on repowiki.wb_items_per_site.

NOTE: If any clients already have usage tracking enabled, then updateSubscriptions.php can also be run and subscription tracking enabled for each of them at this point.

NOTE: Client wikis should be configured to keep track of their subscriptions in the wb_changes_subscription.
This can be done right away or at any later point, using the instructions in section ''Start tracking
client subscriptions based on entity usage'' below.

NOTE: The dispatchChanges.php script does not yet use wb_changes_subscription at all. This means
that if a client wiki uses an entity ''only'' via arbitrary access (i.e. no page on that wiki is
linked to that entity via a sitelink), changes to the entity will not cause a change notification
to the client wiki. This issue is tracked on phabricator as ticket [https://phabricator.wikimedia.org/T66590 T66590].


== Start tracking entity usage on the client wikis ==

To enable usage tracking on a client wiki:
* Deploy the schema change and set useLegacyUsageIndex = false.
** If useLegacyUsageIndex is false, update.php will create the table automatically.
** If useLegacyUsageIndex is true, apply client/sql/entity_usage.sql manually.
* Run client/maintenance/populateEntityUsage.php to initialize the wbc_entity_usage table based on repowiki.wb_items_per_site.
* Enable usage tracking by setting useLegacyUsageIndex = false.
* If desired, enable arbitrary access by setting allowArbitraryDataAccess = true
** Caveat: as long as useLegacyChangesSubscription on the repo, pages using items that are not connected to any page on the local wiki via a sitelink will not get purged automatically when the item is edited.


== Start tracking client subscriptions based on entity usage ==

Client wikis should automatically update their subscription to changes on the repo based on which entities they use.
To enable such subscription tracking based on entity usage:
* Make sure the client has the wbc_entity_usage table set up, see above.
* Make sure the repo has the wb_changes_subscription table set up, see above.
* Run client/maintenance/updateSubscriptions.php to put entries into repowiki.wb_changes_subscription based on the client wiki's wbc_entity_usage table.
* Enable subscription tracking by setting useLegacyChangesSubscription = false.
* If desired, enable arbitrary access by setting allowArbitraryDataAccess = true
** Caveat: as long as useLegacyChangesSubscription on the repo, pages using items that are not connected to any page on the local wiki via a sitelink will not get purged automatically when the item is edited.


== Start using subscriptions for dispatching ==

This is not yet implemented, see [https://phabricator.wikimedia.org/T66590 T66590]
and [https://phabricator.wikimedia.org/T90755 T90755].
